Can you tell me about your
typical sleep schedule on
weekdays?
Umm, so my typical sleep
schedule on weekdays is.
UM sleeping and quite late
around say 2:00 AM or 3:00 AM.
And I usually wake up early for
classes, so that's about like
8:00 AM or something.
And on weekends.
Umm, weekends is also weekends
are mainly close to no sleep or
just two to three hours of
sleep.
So can you define your average
sleeping time for you with
please?
For weekdays.
Yeah.
Umm, average sleeping time must
be.
For five hours 2:00 AM. Too
late.
Like.
Sorry.
Here you go.
So somewhere around 2:00 to 3:00
AM to.
It's 8:00 to 10:00 AM.
And we on weekends.
On weekends, it's it, it's it's
quite like.
It it depends. Sometimes
weekends I don't get any sleep.
And sometimes it's just like
straight up 1212 hours of sleep.
It's it's quite different.
How do you usually feel when you
wake up in the morning? Do you
feel refreshed or tired?
I feel tired most of the times.
And like are there like do you
wanna like talk more about that
thing?
Yeah. So usually when I wake up,
I'm pretty much tired. I'm
groggy, there's little to no
energy in me. I have to push
myself, and I mostly run on
caffeine. I will either need a
cup of coffee or a cup of tea to
begin my day so that I can
sustain the whole day.
What are some of the factors
that impact your ability to fall
asleep?
Well, a lot of times I find
myself just randomly scrolling
on social media, even if I'm
sleepy, I tend to just keep
using my phone, and then when I
try to fall asleep.
Usually I can't. Secondly, I do
struggle with the random
thoughts. I get anxious and
hence I can't sleep.
Other than that, even if I have
like done physical strain and
sexercises and at the end I'm
tired but I want to sleep but I
can't basically fall asleep. So
these are certain things that
affect my sleep.
And.
Girl.
OK. Can you talk about like,
what's the like, the factors
that impact your ability to stay
asleep? It can be like noise,
light or something, you know?
Umm yeah, I am pretty much a
light sleeper so any sort of
noise.
If my phone vibrates, I will
wake up.
Or if if, since I sleep
sometimes early in the morning
like 6-7 o'clock if I'm sleeping
at that time I can hear birds
chirping and that's another
thing that makes it harder for
me to fall asleep.
And like, uh, can you talk about
the distractions that you have?
Like when you was like, when you
fell asleep and the distractions
like iron, it can be a
notifications your screen.
Out on the light in the room or
something.
Mainly it's the phone buzzing.
It's the notification that if
I'm trying to fall asleep, if my
phone buzzes, I will wake up.
Have you ever experienced any
negative effects of lack of
sleep such as difficulty
concentrating or feeling
irritable?
Yes, that is on most days when I
have not slept well, I will be
super tired. I will be very
irritable.
Why? What when I attend classes
so half of the time I am not
even present in the class. I
can't concentrate and I can't.
Umm, I got like I can't focus
and I I I just feel like
sleeping in the class.
Right.
Have you ever used an app or
other technology to help you
improve your sleep and habits?
If so, what was your experience
like?
Umm, I did use this app called
calm.
Umm for the first few tries I
couldn't manage to sleep a
little bit.
But nothing, nothing more than
two to three hours.
And then I have tried sleeping
music which is available on
YouTube.
And I mean it does give me a
good nap, but that just lasts
for like, say, 3040 minutes. And
yeah, that's about it.
And do you have any specific
method methods like how you fall
asleep, how you make for
yourself, fall asleep?
I mean, are you asking if I have
any techniques to?
Yeah, what button?
OK. So I mean, if I'm already in
bed, I would just try to.
You know.
Count anticlockwise, that is one
of the methods that I tried to
fall asleep. Another is I will
do some breathing work. It goes
something like 2 inhales and one
long exhale. That is something
that I try to fall asleep and
other than that during the day I
would I will try to sort of.
In Colgate, any sort of exercise
throughout their day, some sort
of physical work that even if
it's like going for a walk.
It sometimes does help me to
fall asleep, but it's just it
depends from day-to-day it it
will work on some days and it it
doesn't work on most days.
Alright. Do you have any
specific goals related to
improving your sleep habits?
Umm yeah, I do have. I mean, I
want to have a good sleeping
schedule so that I don't have to
depend on caffeine. I don't have
to. I don't. I just in general,
I want to sleep well. Cause I
know on days when I get good
sleep.
Uh, I feel so much better and I
get so, so much done. My
productivity increases, so yeah,
that's that's one thing that if
in any way if I can fix my
sleeping schedule, it will be a
game changer for me.
What features would you like to
see in an app designed to
promote healthy sleep habits?
Umm.
Some features that I think that
might help me personally would
be certain reminders of for say.
Well, for example, keeping your
phone down right before the bed
and like.
Reminders to stay hydrated cause
I think that also sort of helps
you.
Umm, other features would be
some soothing sounds that can
help you to put put yourself to
sleep.
Some some calming painting
exercises if if you can add
cause that also sort of works.
These are something some
features that are on top of my
mind.
How do you concurrently wake up?
Is it through alarms?
Yeah.
And do you have do you set
multiple alarms? Would they?
Yeah, I do set multiple alarms
and I tend to snooze them.
Yeah, and how effective do you
think they are?
Setting multiple alarms.
Yeah.
So it's sort of.
Disrupts my sleep so that I am
half half awake half asleep.
And then it just.
I mean it is irritating, but at
the end it pushes me to get out
of bed so it just helps.
How are you important? Is it to
you to wake feeling refreshed
and energized in the morning?
It's extremely important for me
because.
On days when I do wake up
feeling refreshed, I get so much
done. My productivity is.
Very high.
Umm. And I think that shows on
every single aspect of my life.
So yeah.
Do you have? Do you have any
concerns about using technology
such as machine learning,
artificial intelligence or
biometric sensors to improve
your sleep? If so, what are
they?
Umm, no, I I don't think so. I
don't have any issues.
Can you do you think you can
rely on these things like just
like somehow?
Umm are you saying if I can rely
on apps to fall asleep?
Yeah.
Yeah, I think if if if it is, it
can be a facilitator wherein you
take help of it and try to
figure out your triggers and you
know try to solve them and then
you can just.
Take help of it whenever and if
necessary, so I think it's a
good way to start.
Or what if like I imagine, a
scenario where you have a
specific, let's assume Apple
Watch and it's striking your
sleep cycle, but eventually it
wasn't able to track your sleep
Umm.
cycle correctly.
Umm.
And it was giving you the
information which wasn't
correct. So what about that?
Umm yeah. I mean that would be
an issue.
But on most days I think I I
could rely on an app because I
have used these apps.
Sorry.
What are some of the challenges
you face when it comes to
Yeah.
maintaining healthy sleep
habits?
Challenges. Ohh. The main
challenges.
Actually, sticking to the
schedule that you have made for
yourself, like implementing is
the issue. That's the main thing
you can't really.
And leave.
Can you explain it like why is
it hard to maintain like those
Yeah.
things and the challenges that
you face?
There are a lot of external
factors as well. Like sometimes
you wanna hang out with your
friends or you've got any
deadlines. So you, you you stay
up doing that.
Sometimes it's just.
Well, yeah.
Me on days like when you're
you're feeling anxious or you
you have multiple thoughts in
your head. You can't sleep. And
I think these are some.
Problems and like these are some
external factors that I think
come and play when whenever it
is for me specifically to stick
to my schedule.
Can you tell me about a time
when you had a particularly good
night's sleep? What factors
contributed in that experience?
UMI.
It's it's a very recent
experience. A couple of days
back, I did have a very good
night's sleep. It was almost
around like 10 hours sleep and.
UM.
I I did everything possible to
keep myself relaxed right from
like dimming the lights in the
room and taking a calming bath
before going to bed.
And yeah, the next day when I
woke up, I was.
Extremely refreshed. I my energy
levels were.
Or at all time high and it did
make me feel very good. My mood
was completely fine. I didn't
feel sad or any sorts of
negative emotions or thoughts.
Can you talk about like the
factors which contributed to
that? I mean provide you that
experience?
I did tell you about the factors
like I I I purposely, I mean
went for a shower before going
to bed and then I sort of.
Umm, just did things that were
making myself calm and my mind
calm. I kept my phone away
before going to bed, or almost
like half an hour. I I I didn't
use my phone and I was just
laying in bed till I eventually
fell asleep.
And yeah, I think getting away
from technology and like dimming
the lights and having.
As having like a quiet or. Yeah,
I did play some soothing music.
It was like a rainfall in a
forest, kind of a a sound that I
found on YouTube and that helped
me.
Fall asleep faster.
All right. Do you share your bed
with your partner or roommate?
Yes, I do.
How does their sleep schedule or
habits impact your own sleep?
Umm.
It does not really affect my
sleep inhabit that much, if if
I'm if I'm feeling sleepy, I'll
just go to bed and that's that.
All right, so it is there
something that you wanna add on
that thing?
Like, is that something like
you're concerned about? Your
Uh.
partner's sleeping habit. That
might help, might impact your
own sleep somehow.
Umm some?
Times is just that, even if I am
feeling sleepy.
If I don't find my partner next
to me, I find it difficult to
fall asleep and then eventually
I will wake up and I'll I'll
stay up and maybe we'll just
like binge watch something and
things like that. So then it
sometimes this it does happen
wherein his sleeping pattern
affects mine.
Right.
Are there any fact is or
information you think would be
important for us to consider
when designing an app to promote
healthy sleep habits?
Umm.
I think.
Umm.
If the app is.
Ohm likes coming to look at or
it's like if if the app is.
Is like a place where you can
just slow down a little bit.
Umm.
I think that would really help
like to for for me to.
You know.
Experience good sleeping habits,
I think like using like soothing
lighter colors or some sort of
interactive activity on the app.
I think that will be quite
helpful.
So you mean like put in some
activities like as you mentioned
previously like the painting
thing and everything?
Yeah, yes, yes, yes.
That kind of things, alright.
Yes. Yeah.
So I think that's the end of it.
Do you have any questions or
would you like to add anything
else to your responses?
No, I think that's about it.
Uh, and in case if you do like
you can send it to the my
contact information you already
have. So do contact us if you
have any responses that you like
to add anything to.
Sure.
All right. Thank you for your
time again.
Thank you.